# The corpus
The Korman (1984) corpus is comprised of dense longitudinal recordings from 6 infants and their middle class UK mothers at home. Mothers were instructed to keep the recording apparatus near the child and on for as much of the day as possible. Experimenters dropped off the recording equipment around noon and picked it up around noon the next day. There are six recordings for each infant, spanning the age range from 6 to 16 weeks (for more details on the participants and recording methods, see Korman, 1984).
The original corpus (available via CHILDES, cite MacWhinney) is transcribed orthographically, but because we were interested in the co-occurence of syllables we needed the phonetic transcription instead. This is one of the corpora used by Swingley (2005), and we used the same phonetic approximations from that study as well (for details about the phonetic approximation, see Swingley, 2005). This phonetic approximation is a simplified and idealized version of what the actual phonetic material would have been - a given word is represented with the exact same pronunciation each time it occurs, ignoring probable irregularities due to coarticulation, prosody, etc. This has the potential to exagerate performance of the segmentation model, since there is no noise from one exemplar of a word to another as there would be in real speech. Syllable boundaries are also already given in the phonetic approximation of this corpus, again potentially simplifying the word boundary problem for the model since word boundaries are only possible at syllable boundaries. Swingley (2005) examines the effect of probabilistic resyllabification of the corpus on word segmentation accuracy and indeed finds that it results in a modest drop in accuracy (when syllable onsets and offsets are restricted to forms observed at utterance onsets and offsets respectively, so phonotactically illegal sequences like vmi from "give me" do not occur). Using unambiguous syllable boundaries in this project likely exagerates the strength of statistical cues to word boundaries. It is also important to consider that many features of this simplified phonetic corpus would have the opposite effect. For example, prosodic information, which has been demonstrated to be a useful cue to word boundaries for infants both on its own (cite) and in combination with statistical phonological cues (cite), is not available to the model, potentially handicapping performance. Utterance boundaries have also been removed, another important cue to word boundaries (cite). Information from other modalities, such as touch (cite Seidl et al 2014), may also bolster the signal to word boundaries and is not available to the model. As Box and Draper (1987) famously note, "All models are wrong, but some are useful." The goal of this analyses is to explore how context shapes patterns in the statistical co-occurence of syllables, clarifying the role of statistical learning for word segmentation in natural speech. While our model is most definitely wrong, it is our hope that it is still useful. 

Box, G. E., & Draper, N. R. (1987). Empirical model-building and response surfaces. New York: Wiley.
Seidl, A. H., Tincoff, R., Baker, C., & Cristia, A. (2014). Why the body comes first: effects of experimenter touch on infants’ word finding. Developmental Science, 1–10. http://doi.org/10.1111/desc.12182

# Defining context
There are multiple potential ways to define context within a corpus. 
## Key words
For this analysis, our approach was to use a list of key words (based on MCDI words supplemented with some especially frequent content words from the corpus) that we expected would be associated with particular contexts – for example, milk was on the list for mealtime words, and wipe was on the list for diaper change words. We developed lists for seven contexts, based on what is known from previous work describing infants' everyday activities (cite FAUSEY) and other models that have attempted to define contexts in infants' experience (cite Soderstron et al 2013 and Roy Frank and Roy 2012). The key word lists are available in Appendix ###. Utterances in the corpus were then tagged for each context (not mutually exclusively) when those key words occurred, yielding 7 context-specific subcorpora. Word segmentation decisions based on syllable co-occurrence statistics were made within each context independently of the others, modeling zero generalization from one context to another on the part of infants. 


Soderstrom, M., & Wittebolle, K. (2013). When do caregivers talk? The influences of activity and time of day on caregiver speech and child vocalizations in two childcare environments. PLoS ONE, 8(11). http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0080646
Roy, B. C., Frank, M. C., & Roy, D. (2012). Relating Activity Contexts to Early Word Learning in Dense Longitudinal Data. In Proceedings of the 34th Annual Cognitive Science Conference. Retrieved from http://web.media.mit.edu/~bcroy/papers/cogsci2012_RFR.pdf

# Assessing statistical cues to word boundaries